(upbeat music)
Ready for a fun challenge?
And I say fun because we're developers
and what we do for fun might not be the same
as people who do rock climbing and what not.
But what I want you to do is to use map, filter, and reduce
all in one exercise and I want you to do this:
go to any web page like the Mozilla Developer Docs
for reduce.
Copy every single piece of text, I just hit command A
and command C and I want you to count
how many times every letter and number occur on here.
So, how would you even do that. Well here's a couple tips.
First of all, maybe I'll try it now
before I even give you some tips.
Now, I'm gonna give you some tips,
so if you are still listening then here you go.
I want you to first grab all the text.
Then we need to convert that text into an array of letters,
then we need to filter that letters into letters or numbers.
Since, we're going to get like parenthesis, commas,
spaces, and things that are not what we are looking for.
So we need to filter those out
and also we need to take are of if it's a capital 'A'
or a lowercase 'a', I only ever want to count that once,
so maybe we'll have to use a map there as well.
So this is going to use map, filter, reduce,
all in one go so let's go ahead and do that now.
So first thing I'm gonna do is say const text is equal to
and I'm going to use back ticks here
because it has to be multi-line like look at this.
(Cheering)
Three hundred, many many letters here
and if we were to console log the text,
let's see what we're working with.
So we see thirty-one K of text that is in here.
So how would I convert all of this text
to an array of every single letter.
Well, you can call .split or spread it into an array.
So we'll say const everything is equal to text.split
and split it based on nothing.
And console log everything, now we get an array
with 15,911 letters that are in it.
Now, what we need to do is, we could do two things,
we could lowercase everything immediately,
or we could filter the things out for what we want.
So if we do lowercase first,
were gonna be unnecessarily lower casing things
that can't go lowercase.
And we do filter first to get rid of this junk,
our matcher will have to match both uppercase
and lowercase. Let's actually get rid of the junk first.
So what we'll do is say const
result is equal to we'll take everything.filter
and give ourselves a character and we want to test
if that character so I'll put it up.
If that character is a to z, A to Z, or 0 to 9.
Then we want to keep it. So, how do you test
if something is a to Z, A to Z, or 0 to 9.
Well, that's with a match function.
So, we'll go mdn match, go to our regular expression.
Our regular expression is a way
to use what is called a Regex pattern to test some text
if things exist. And there's a number of different methods
that take a Regex like match, matchall, replace, search,
so if we wanted to filter for a's, what we could do
is we'll say if the character matches
and the way that you pass a regular expression
is two forward slashes
and you put your matcher in the middle
so if it matches a then you return true.
Else, return false. So if I have 'a' and I try to match 'a',
that will return to us a value.
If we try to look for 'b' then it's null
and that is false.
In this case it gives us a little bit more information
as to where we found it.
So if I were to pass cat,
it tells us we found it at the second letter.
But in our case it's just one letter
so that's just totally fine.
So, in our case we need a regex that will match all letters
and the way that we can do that is with groups
so square bracket a to z
and in our case we don't need to return true or false.
We can, so let's see how we're doing.
Console log result.
And now we have 10,000 and it looks
like they're all just lowercase.
And we need to modify that to also take a to z,
and now that has a little bit more,
see that has a capital S right there
and another capital S right there,
but we have no numbers so we could say 0 to 9
and how do I know this? Well it's just from years
of writing regex's.
I really like the website regexer.com
and what this will do is give you a bunch of,
you can save your own patterns.
Its got cheat sheets, for you can match any character
except the new line.
You can match words, you can match white space.
So here we can remove this here
and you see that we have this group here
that is matching a to z.
Another option you can pass is the insensitive flag
and what that will do is it will not care about upper
or lowercase.
So in our case, we can either match A through Z
and a to z or we can leave off that uppercase
and simply pass the i-flag
and the I-flag will make it case insensitive.
Let's just refresh that and make sure
that we still have. Now we have a few more.
Oh, that's because we added the 0 to 9 as well.
So we're getting some numbers in here as well.
I'll put it up. It groups them
when you have really large arrays.
(scrolling)
Um, I'm not finding any numbers in here
and I want to make sure that's correct
so if I delete this, we should get just numbers.
Yeah, so it is matching numbers.
We know that because the count went up to 11,000
from about 10,000 that we had before.
So that is our first filter,
now what we wanna do is lowercase everything
and the way we can do that is with a map.
Now, I'm changing this right on the end.
This is probably getting a little bit hard to work with,
so what I wanna do here, is take these transforms
and put them in their own functions.
So we'll make a function called is Valid Character
that takes in a character and returns.
And were going to do this return true or false,
but in our case we just return the matcher
because the matcher will be truthy or falsey enough for us.
That's beautiful, now I can filter.
Let's say filter for is Valid Character.
See how nice that reads? And we can go one step further
and chain the text.split on
instead of having an everything variable.
Similarly, often developers will like to put one per line,
so we say text.split.filter
and then we can comment them into split each char
into an item of an array. Then we filter for a valid char.
That doesn't even need a comment.
People often talk about writing good enough JavaScript
so that the code explains itself.
Filter for is Valid Character.
You don't even need a comment there.
Next, we want to take everything and lowercase it
so we will map convert every letter to lowercase
and we just map over the lowercase function
and we can make that. Actually does that exist
as a static method? String.toLowerCase.
No, it doesn't.
All right, lets make little function called lowercase
to character returns character to lower case.
You could write that as an arrow function as well.
Const lowercase is equal to character
and character dot to Lower Case.
You'll see that quite a bit, I'll comment this out.
Those ae the exact same thing.
We will map into lowercase
and then that will see what we're working with here.
Now, it seems that everything is lowercased.
Looking good, and then the final thing we want to do
is count the instances of and that is with a reduce.
And we will make another function here
called instanceCounterReducer.
Actually, just call it instanceCounter
because we're already passing it to a reducer.
And we want to start with an empty object and in here,
we'll say letters
and we'll give ourselves the individual character
that we were looking at. Maybe not letters,
let's call it counts and in here,
we'll simply say if the count of the character exists,
then we'll increment it plus one,
otherwise, we'll set it to one.
What we do is loop over it and say,
does our accumulator have an s property?
If it does, we increment it by one,
otherwise, we'll set it to one because it's the first time.
Now, when I refresh that, count is not defined
because I named it counts.
Error, cannot read property 'k' of undefined.
Why is it giving us 'k'? So if I comment this off,
you'll see 'k' is the second one in there.
So why is it telling us k of undefined?
It's because the first time it works.
The first time our reducer accumulator is an object,
but because we didn't return anything from this line
then the second time the return is undefined
because the accumulator is undefined
because we haven't returned anything.
So we simply have to return counts
so the next loop will have access to our counts.
Loop over it, look at that. 0, 1, 1 ,1 ,1, that's not right.
(laughing)
You're telling me that every letter only occurred once?
Okay, I goofed us up but I like to leave my debugging in
so it was probably something here.
Counts of character, if that exists
then count of character is equal
to counts of character plus one,
otherwise it's equal to one
and we can put these on their own lines
so if it exists, if it doesn't exist.
So, if true or if exists, it does not exist.
There we go. So 0 is 54, What's the least?
Seven. The worst number, 7 exists that often.
Nine, 8 times. E, a kind of fun little thing
that you can do now with our array or object entries
is figure out what is the most popular.
So now figure out how do you sort these based on
the most popular letter to the least popular letter.
You can tune out now, but I'm genuinely curious here.
So let's do it together. Okay, so I have this result
and what happens if I do object.entires?
It gives us an array or it gives us a key or the count.
Okay, so what we can do is const sorted result
is equal to object.entries result
and the we will sort
and we could make a little function here
called function sort by value
and with a sort we get an 'a' and a 'b'
and we return a the second thing
because this is an array
we don't want to sort based on the first item,
we want to sort based on the second item
which is the count minus b 1.
Then sort by value, does that work?
I'll explain it if it does. Not totally confident.
Not just yet.
It worked. Okay, so e is the most popular letter
where as 7 is the least popular character.
So what happened there?
So as you remember the way that sort works is
that you can take the previous one and the next one
and you can compare their values,
in our case you are comparing the second item in the array
and you can either return 0, stay where you are,
negative 1, go forward, or positive 1, go backwards
to the end of the array.
Instead of saying if it's greater or less than
and go back to the sorting one to see that,
we can simply just return what the value is
so it might be a negative value,
it might be a positive value, it might be a zero value.
So, that's just the benefit of doing that,
we just return the sort by value
and we can see that e is a very popular number,
not even close to r.
Cool, hopefully that clarified it a little.
You'll be doing this type of thing
where you split, filter, map, reduce all over.
It is possible to do all of this work
in one single reduce function
but in my opinions it's much easier to read
and much better for readability to split it up
into a couple different functions
and just chain them along on each of them like that.
You'll also notice I haven't put a semicolon right there.
I can put that on the end,
just make sure you don't accidentally put a semicolon
in the middle of that
because that will immediately raise a red flag
and it tells me that I have ended my JavaScript line.
So make sure you don't put that on there.
Put that on the very end.
Hope you enjoyed that, see you the next one.